So, my name is Melkey.
I am a machine learning
infrastructure engineer at Twitch.
I've been there for over three and
a half years now, which is crazy.
Time really flies.
I joined as a junior engineer with very
little work experience, and then three and
a half years later, I'm still there,
and I really much so enjoy it.
And the interesting part about,
I guess the title is,
people always ask me,
how do you write Go in machine learning?
I thought it's more like a Python thing or
something like that.
And people who make those
comments are absolutely right.
If I was creating the machine
learning modules and
models, I would probably
be writing Python.
The part that benefits me is
the infrastructure part of the title.
And because of that infrastructure aspect,
that's where I use Go a lot.
I write everything
around the actual model.
So I work really closely with scientists,
data scientists, who develop the model,
train the model, and
then I work to make it usable.
How to put in production.
How do we make it reliable?
How do we make sure it's quick, it's fast,
it's safe, train new data, the pipeline.
So all those aspects is kind of my bread
and butter, and we use Go at Twitch,
and that's how I've developed my own
set of skills with the language.
I stream live code at twitch.tv/melkey, so
I am actually a user of the product
at the company that I work for.
And I think that's also really cool.
I think if any aspect
where you are a user, or
you experience something that
you are part of building.
I think it just adds more of that kind
of passion to do it You know that they
want to do it.
And then I also make coding
videos at youtube.com/melkey.
The YouTube videos are not just
reruns of the live stream.
I don't just take snippets of my live and
box them out.
I actually record everything new because
I want my YouTube to be more like core
tutorials, core topics.
So yeah, check it out.
I have lots of videos on
Go where I don't know,
explore cool packages that found
on GitHub that solve a problem, or
how to do something with Go that maybe
some people haven't really faced.
And then there's also just topics that
I think are interesting to talk about.
I constantly try to build
many different things.
I'm one of those people that gets an idea,
try to spin it up, buy a domain.
And then hopefully I finish it,
but sometimes I don't.
But some of the things I have
finished include Go blueprint.
So it is a project on GitHub.
It has about 7000 stars.
It's a CLI tool that spins
up Go projects for you.
So when I first started,
it only spun up like the routing.
For Go projects,
like just the file structure and
then some end points that people
can query and like some options.
But it's really evolved due
to people kind of being
interested in what this could offer.
And so now it can spin up a front
end portion using HTMX, React,
we have a component in the works.
So, yeah, it's a really cool project.
I'm very proud of it.
And I'm more proud of the contributions,
honestly, and
being part of a bigger
scene in open source.
Another thing I've built is that PFG Labs,
it's a platform for
people to learn about Go, and it's not
a platform for courses to be hosted.
It's more of a platform for
doing projects interactively.
So at PFG Labs,
you will write code on your own IDE.
Could be VS Code and
even whatever you use.
And then you actually submit using Git,
your project.
And then we run it through our system to
tell you if you've passed the tests for
whatever project you're building.
So it's a little more interactive.
It's also focused on Go.
And then some other things.
I actually taught a previous
course on front end masters.
The first course was how to build
production apps that scale using
Go and AWS.
So again, we touch on Go in that course.
I go through, maybe more of a preliminary
beginner aspect of Go really showcasing
some of that syntax, and then we
encompass AWS to deploy the application.
So that's something that
you'd like to check out,
definitely encourage everyone
to look at that course as well.
For this course in particular, I've jotted
down four things that we will be needing.
And I'm not going to say the obvious one,
like a Wi-Fi connection obviously we need
Internet, which would be
bringing in different components.
But the things that we absolutely
need in our machine is Go.
So have Go installed in your machine.
I'll actually show people how we can
install Go when we get to the component.
So I'll show how you can set it
up on VS Code or any of them.
Docker and
Docker Compose installed on your computer.
This one, I was very hesitant about,
because we can do a full Go
course without using any Docker.
But I thought I want to just
kind of rip the bandit off, and
I want to encompass Docker.
And if you're not familiar with Docker,
it's simply just.
The way I describe it is like simply just
these containers that have software, and
that software just lives in the container,
not on your actual machine.
So on your actual machine,
you'll have this, like Docker container.
We can think of just this black box,
and within it,
it will have any software
that you specify to have.
And the reason we're going to have
Docker is because I don't want to be too
invasive into people's computers.
So Docker, I think,
is just a good way to spin things up.
And we're going to be using Docker for
our database.
And our database is going
to be with Postgres.
I chose Postgres because, simply,
it's like an industry standard.
I think it's the best
solution to relational data.
Of course, if you're interested
in non-relational data,
like document style data, there's Mongo,
no SQL solutions like DynamoDB.
But I thought for our case,
let's keep the data relational.
I think it's a bit more straightforward.
And Postgres is all reliable.
I think that's the best
way I could put it.
It's going to work the features it
rolls out is they're always great.
You can really throw anything at Postgres,
and it typically works.
There's very few situations
where people break Postgres.
So I'm a big fan of it,
if you couldn't tell.
And then there's this little plus PSQL.
PSQL is simply a way for
us to interact with Postgres.
So if you're kind of following the trend
here, we'll have Docker, Docker will have
Postgres and that will have our database,
and we'll connect to it.
And then we kind of want to see
what's happening in the database.
So we're going to be using PSQL.
However, if you want to use another
app that has a UI component there's
stuff like Bruno, Postman, Postwoman,
apps like that that works too.
Sorry, for PSQL it would be DBeaver and
other tools where you can actually look
at the database, interact with it.
PG admin, I think, is also a solution.
For me, PSQL is simply a tool
that runs in the terminal.
So we'll just see my terminal, and
we'll use PSQL commands to connect to it.
cURL is where we're obviously going to be
using because we're going to query our
server, our back end server in Go that's
going to communicate to our database.
Most of the time I use cURL because,
again, I'm a fan of just having
the terminal and having just like
the terminal UI dictate everything.
So I write my cURL commands.
You'll see them.
They're sometimes not the prettiest,
but have a JSON editor,
they'll help it make it prettier.
But again, if that's not your flavor,
that's not your style,
definitely you can use any kind of app,
UI tool, like Postman, Bruno,
Postwoman, anything like that.
So these are just communication tools.
The core is kind of Docker, Postgres, and
if you have whatever preference you want,
feel free to use them.